'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: CrtTrace.3,v 1.2 1998/09/14 18:39:47 stanton Exp $
'\" 
'\" The definitions below are for supplemental macros used in Tcl/Tk
'\" manual entries.
'\"
'\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
'\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
'\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
'\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
'\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
'\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
'\"
'\" .AS ?type? ?name?
'\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
'\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
'\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
'\"
'\" .BS
'\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
'\"	enclosed in one large box.
'\"
'\" .BE
'\"	End of box enclosure.
'\"
'\" .CS
'\"	Begin code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .CE
'\"	End code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .VS ?version? ?br?
'\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
'\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
'\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
'\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
'\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
'\"
'\" .VE
'\"	End of vertical sidebar.
'\"
'\" .DS
'\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .DE
'\"	End of indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .SO
'\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget.  The
'\"	options follow on successive lines, in four columns separated
'\"	by tabs.
'\"
'\" .SE
'\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
'\"
'\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
'\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
'\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
'\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
'\"	the option's class in the option database.
'\"
'\" .UL arg1 arg2
'\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
'\"
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.2 1998/09/14 18:39:54 stanton Exp $
'\"
'\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
'\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP	(\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
'\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
'\"	# BS - start boxed text
'\"	# ^y = starting y location
'\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
'\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
'\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
'\"	# ^Y = starting y location
'\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
'\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
'\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
'\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
'\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
'\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
'\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
'\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c 8c 12c
.ft B
..
'\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\fBoptions\\fR manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
'\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
'\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
'\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.TH Tcl_CreateTrace 3 "" Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_CreateTrace, Tcl_DeleteTrace \- arrange for command execution to be traced
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Trace
\fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR(\fIinterp, level, proc, clientData\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_DeleteTrace\fR(\fIinterp, trace\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_CmdTraceProc (clientData)()
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter containing command to be traced or untraced.
.AP int level in
Only commands at or below this nesting level will be traced.  1 means
top-level commands only, 2 means top-level commands or those that are
invoked as immediate consequences of executing top-level commands
(procedure bodies, bracketed commands, etc.) and so on.
.AP Tcl_CmdTraceProc *proc in
Procedure to call for each command that's executed.  See below for
details on the calling sequence.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value to pass to \fIproc\fR.
.AP Tcl_Trace trace in
Token for trace to be removed (return value from previous call
to \fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR).
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR arranges for command tracing.  From now on, \fIproc\fR
will be invoked before Tcl calls command procedures to process
commands in \fIinterp\fR.  The return value from
\fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR is a token for the trace,
which may be passed to \fBTcl_DeleteTrace\fR to remove the trace.  There may
be many traces in effect simultaneously for the same command interpreter.
.PP
\fIProc\fR should have arguments and result that match the
type \fBTcl_CmdTraceProc\fR:
.CS
typedef void Tcl_CmdTraceProc(
	ClientData \fIclientData\fR,
	Tcl_Interp *\fIinterp\fR,
	int \fIlevel\fR,
	char *\fIcommand\fR,
	Tcl_CmdProc *\fIcmdProc\fR,
	ClientData \fIcmdClientData\fR,
	int \fIargc\fR,
	char *\fIargv\fR[]);
.CE
The \fIclientData\fR and \fIinterp\fR parameters are
copies of the corresponding arguments given to \fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR.
\fIClientData\fR typically points to an application-specific
data structure that describes what to do when \fIproc\fR
is invoked.  \fILevel\fR gives the nesting level of the command
(1 for top-level commands passed to \fBTcl_Eval\fR by the application,
2 for the next-level commands passed to \fBTcl_Eval\fR as part of parsing
or interpreting level-1 commands, and so on).  \fICommand\fR
points to a string containing the text of the
command, before any argument substitution.
\fICmdProc\fR contains the address of the command procedure that
will be called to process the command (i.e. the \fIproc\fR argument
of some previous call to \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR) and \fIcmdClientData\fR
contains the associated client data for \fIcmdProc\fR (the \fIclientData\fR
value passed to \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR).  \fIArgc\fR and \fIargv\fR give
the final argument information that will be passed to \fIcmdProc\fR, after
command, variable, and backslash substitution.
\fIProc\fR must not modify the \fIcommand\fR or \fIargv\fR strings.
.PP
Tracing will only occur for commands at nesting level less than
or equal to the \fIlevel\fR parameter (i.e. the \fIlevel\fR
parameter to \fIproc\fR will always be less than or equal to the
\fIlevel\fR parameter to \fBTcl_CreateTrace\fR).
.PP
Calls to \fIproc\fR will be made by the Tcl parser immediately before
it calls the command procedure for the command (\fIcmdProc\fR).  This
occurs after argument parsing and substitution, so tracing for
substituted commands occurs before tracing of the commands
containing the substitutions.  If there is a syntax error in a
command, or if there is no command procedure associated with a
command name, then no tracing will occur for that command.  If a
string passed to Tcl_Eval contains multiple commands (bracketed, or
on different lines) then multiple calls to \fIproc\fR will occur,
one for each command.  The \fIcommand\fR string for each of these
trace calls will reflect only a single command, not the entire string
passed to Tcl_Eval.
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteTrace\fR removes a trace, so that no future calls will be
made to the procedure associated with the trace.  After \fBTcl_DeleteTrace\fR
returns, the caller should never again use the \fItrace\fR token.

.SH KEYWORDS
command, create, delete, interpreter, trace
