'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: ObjSetVar.3,v 1.2 1998/09/14 18:39:49 stanton Exp $
'\" 
'\" The definitions below are for supplemental macros used in Tcl/Tk
'\" manual entries.
'\"
'\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
'\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
'\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
'\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
'\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
'\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
'\"
'\" .AS ?type? ?name?
'\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
'\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
'\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
'\"
'\" .BS
'\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
'\"	enclosed in one large box.
'\"
'\" .BE
'\"	End of box enclosure.
'\"
'\" .CS
'\"	Begin code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .CE
'\"	End code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .VS ?version? ?br?
'\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
'\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
'\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
'\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
'\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
'\"
'\" .VE
'\"	End of vertical sidebar.
'\"
'\" .DS
'\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .DE
'\"	End of indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .SO
'\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget.  The
'\"	options follow on successive lines, in four columns separated
'\"	by tabs.
'\"
'\" .SE
'\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
'\"
'\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
'\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
'\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
'\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
'\"	the option's class in the option database.
'\"
'\" .UL arg1 arg2
'\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
'\"
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.2 1998/09/14 18:39:54 stanton Exp $
'\"
'\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
'\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP	(\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
'\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
'\"	# BS - start boxed text
'\"	# ^y = starting y location
'\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
'\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
'\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
'\"	# ^Y = starting y location
'\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
'\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
'\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
'\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
'\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
'\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
'\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
'\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c 8c 12c
.ft B
..
'\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\fBoptions\\fR manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
'\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
'\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
'\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.TH Tcl_ObjSetVar2 3 8.0 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_ObjSetVar2, Tcl_ObjGetVar2 \- manipulate Tcl variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_ObjSetVar2\fR(\fIinterp, part1Ptr, part2Ptr, newValuePtr, flags\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_ObjGetVar2\fR(\fIinterp, part1Ptr, part2Ptr, flags\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *newValuePtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter containing variable.
.AP Tcl_Obj *part1Ptr in
Points to a Tcl object containing the variable's name.
The name may include a series of \fB::\fR namespace qualifiers
to specify a variable in a particular namespace.
May refer to a scalar variable or an element of an array variable.
.AP Tcl_Obj *part2Ptr in
If non-NULL, points to an object containing the name of an element
within an array and \fIpart1Ptr\fR must refer to an array variable.
.AP Tcl_Obj *newValuePtr in
Points to a Tcl object containing the new value for the variable.
.AP int flags in
OR-ed combination of bits providing additional information for
operation. See below for valid values.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These two procedures may be used to read and modify
Tcl variables from C code.
\fBTcl_ObjSetVar2\fR will create a new variable or modify an existing one.
It sets the specified variable to
the object referenced by \fInewValuePtr\fR
and returns a pointer to the object which is the variable's new value.
The returned object may not be the same one
referenced by \fInewValuePtr\fR;
this might happen because variable traces may modify the variable's value.
The reference count for the variable's old value is decremented
and the reference count for its new value is incremented.
If the new value for the variable
is not the same one referenced by \fInewValuePtr\fR
(perhaps as a result of a variable trace),
then \fInewValuePtr\fR's reference count is left unchanged.
The reference count for the returned object is not incremented
to reflect the returned reference.
If the caller needs to keep a reference to the object,
say in a data structure,
it must increment its reference count using \fBTcl_IncrRefCount\fR.
If an error occurs in setting the variable
(e.g. an array variable is referenced
without giving an index into the array),
then NULL is returned.
.PP
The variable name specified to \fBTcl_ObjSetVar2\fR consists of two parts.
\fIpart1Ptr\fR contains the name of a scalar or array variable.
If \fIpart2Ptr\fR is NULL, the variable must be a scalar.
If \fIpart2Ptr\fR is not NULL,
it contains the name of an element in the array named by \fIpart2Ptr\fR.
As a special case, if the flag TCL_PARSE_PART1 is specified,
\fIpart1Ptr\fR may contain both an array and an element name:
if the name contains an open parenthesis and ends with a
close parenthesis, then the value between the parentheses is
treated as an element name (which can have any string value) and
the characters before the first open
parenthesis are treated as the name of an array variable.
If the flag TCL_PARSE_PART1 is given,
\fIpart2Ptr\fR should be NULL since the array and element names
are taken from \fIpart2Ptr\fR.
.PP
The \fIflags\fR argument may be used to specify any of several
options to the procedures.
It consists of an OR-ed combination of any of the following
bits:
.TP
\fBTCL_GLOBAL_ONLY\fR
Under normal circumstances the procedures look up variables as follows:
If a procedure call is active in \fIinterp\fR,
a variable is looked up at the current level of procedure call.
Otherwise, a variable is looked up first in the current namespace,
then in the global namespace.
However, if this bit is set in \fIflags\fR then the variable
is looked up only in the global namespace
even if there is a procedure call active.
If both \fBTCL_GLOBAL_ONLY\fR and \fBTCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY\fR are given,
\fBTCL_GLOBAL_ONLY\fR is ignored.
.TP
\fBTCL_NAMESPACE_ONLY\fR
Under normal circumstances the procedures look up variables as follows:
If a procedure call is active in \fIinterp\fR,
a variable is looked up at the current level of procedure call.
Otherwise, a variable is looked up first in the current namespace,
then in the global namespace.
However, if this bit is set in \fIflags\fR then the variable
is looked up only in the current namespace
even if there is a procedure call active.
.TP
\fBTCL_LEAVE_ERR_MSG\fR
If an error is returned and this bit is set in \fIflags\fR, then
an error message will be left in the interpreter's result,
where it can be retrieved with \fBTcl_GetObjResult\fR
or \fBTcl_GetStringResult\fR.
If this flag bit isn't set then no error message is left
and the interpreter's result will not be modified.
.TP
\fBTCL_APPEND_VALUE\fR
If this bit is set then \fInewValuePtr\fR is appended to the current
value, instead of replacing it.
If the variable is currently undefined, then this bit is ignored.
.TP
\fBTCL_LIST_ELEMENT\fR
If this bit is set, then \fInewValuePtr\fR is converted to a valid
Tcl list element before setting (or appending to) the variable.
A separator space is appended before the new list element unless
the list element is going to be the first element in a list or
sublist (i.e. the variable's current value is empty, or contains
the single character ``{'', or ends in `` }'').
.TP
\fBTCL_PARSE_PART1\fR
If this bit is set,
then \fBTcl_ObjGetVar2\fR and \fBTcl_ObjSetVar2\fR
will parse \fIpart1Ptr\fR
to obtain both an array name and an element name.
If the name in \fIpart1Ptr\fR contains an open parenthesis
and ends with a close parenthesis,
the name is treated as the name of an element of an array;
otherwise, the name in \fIpart1Ptr\fR
is interpreted as the name of a scalar variable.
When this bit is set,
\fIpart2Ptr\fR is ignored.
.PP
\fBTcl_ObjGetVar2\fR returns the value of the specified variable.
Its arguments are treated the same way as those for \fBTcl_ObjSetVar2\fR.
It returns a pointer to the object which is the variable's value.
The reference count for the returned object is not incremented.
If the caller needs to keep a reference to the object,
say in a data structure,
it must increment the reference count using \fBTcl_IncrRefCount\fR.
If an error occurs in setting the variable
(e.g. an array variable is referenced
without giving an index into the array),
then NULL is returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_GetObjResult, Tcl_GetStringResult, Tcl_GetVar, Tcl_GetVar2, Tcl_SetVar, Tcl_SetVar2, Tcl_TraceVar, Tcl_UnsetVar, Tcl_UnsetVar2

.SH KEYWORDS
array, interpreter, object, scalar, set, unset, variable
